DONE subunit rendering
DONE slow simulator
logic families with per-family delay
fast sim gen
DONE split tool palette
additional hardwired components:
DONE    pull-up
DONE    pull-down
DONE   set high or low as input
DONE    "LED"
DONE    clock
   logic analyzer?
DONE auto wire tool over bubbles
DONE status bar with message area and mode {select, wire, move, bus, others?}
DONE Galasm extension for memories
module structure for sheets
DONE implement right-click centers.
DONE Get rid of pan and implement group select.
DONE Improve (expand) click area for wiring
DONE does change-name during initial save preserve the new name?
DONE disconnect and rconnect handling

FIXED Is there a problem with rotation? I've never seen the rotation
operation in a context menu. Yes, wire bend points don't move along
with the parts even when they are selected.

FIXED Also wire connection points (the black dots were wires connect)
never remove. You cannot drag them. They do not move when selected
and the part is rotated.

FIXED Change the visualization of bus snap connections so that the bus
snaps to a thing that looks like a curly brace. Change the
implementation of groups so that the pins within the group must be
continuous and on a single side.

FIXED 2mm of garbage at the bottom of the drawing canvas.

needs more keyboard accelerators

DONE Straight line bend points should disappear.

DONE Wires need property sheets explaining the endpoints.

A way for AIs to design (use the app). - see specs/ai-open.md

DONE Simulator support for test vectors and a Claude skill for creating them.

DONE Persistence for memory designs and gal designs.

DONEa Improve labeling of + GAL button and MEM button.

Fit to screen and crnter-zoom zoom operations

UX: buttons and indicators are too similar looking.

UX: auto router needs corner avoidance.

Slow down and single step the clock in the slow simulator.

New row in test vector generator should be a copy of the previous row.

After test vectors are saved, the design should be clean unless changes were made to the schematic.

Need to add a concept of per project memory and gal types. Need to change the creation functions to save types in the project.

After opening a new design the editor should do a view: fit to screen

When a subcomponent design is open in the editor, it should be possible to click (or perhaps right click) on a port icon in the design and set it to zero or one for visual test purposes

Add a doc about giving the editor a spin.

Add a built-in component that is a "magic UART". It exposes a register and when a bite is written to the register, it is treated as a character and sent to the standard output of the generated C simulator. The debug simuator will need a console window similar to the test vector panel.
