I wrote:

I have a worthy challenge for you. I'm going to give you a URL pointing at a design document for a digital circuit written in a unique descriptive language. The problem is there is no formal description for this language, just an example. I would like you To create documentation for the language implied by the example. The example is https://gtoal.com/vectrex/joystick/netlist.txt

It said:

A fun reverse-engineering task. Let me fetch the netlist and study it.

Done — the spec is at docs/netlist-language.md (untracked in the repo; move it wherever you like).

The language in a nutshell: a line-oriented netlist format with exactly three constructs, used in declare-before-use order:

1. pinout <Type> … end <Type> defines a package type as pin <number> = <name> [= alias…] lines. Names are wildly permissive — they can start with digits or +/- (3.3v, -5v), contain dots (SPI0.MOSI), and end with a prime for active-low (CS'). Repeating a name across pins (eight pins named 0v) makes it a rail class: any like-named pin satisfies a connection.
2. package <Type> <Instance>… instantiates one or more named instances.
3. circuit <Name> … end <Name> lists connections of the form Inst.Pin -> Inst.Pin. The arrow is documentation only (source on the left, sink on the right); electrically each statement just merges two pins into a net, and nets merge transitively. ; chains related connections on one line, used for current paths like B1 -> Opto0.Collector ; Opto0.Emitter -> 0v.

Two inferences worth calling out, since you asked for the language implied by the example rather than just a transcription:

- Pin references split at the first dot. PI.SPI0.CE0 is instance PI, pin SPI0.CE0 — which forces the rule that instance names may not contain dots while pin names may.
- The example's own bugs were the best evidence. The end tags mismatch three times out of five (pinout PI … end MCP42010, etc.), the package line declares Opto1–Opto8 while the circuit uses Opto0–Opto7, and there are two genuine copy-paste wiring errors (RYLo.Mid/LYLo.Mid connected where the X-axis trimpots RXLo.Mid/LXLo.Mid were clearly intended, leaving those wipers floating). I documented each as errata paired with the validation rule a checker should enforce — mismatched-end detection, undeclared/unused instance checks, and unconnected-pin warnings, the last of which would have caught the real wiring bug.

The spec also includes an EBNF grammar, the net-merging semantics, the # X.SO -> unconnected convention for deliberately floating pins, and a self-contained miniature example exercising every feature. One asymmetry I judged intentional rather than a bug: Y-axis trimpots are wired +5v -> Right but X-axis ones +5v -> Left, which reads as a record of physical mounting orientation.

Then I said:

in this repo there is a digital Simulator and Schematic Editor. The editor is logical, meaning it has no power or ground or analog components like the coupling capacitors. Is there a sufficient information in the save files written by this editor to allow an exporter for NDL?

It said:

Good question — this hinges on what the save format actually records. Let me look at the save-file format and the component definitions.

Yes — with one genuine gap: power and ground. Everything a logical NDL netlist needs is in the save file, and the mapping is almost embarrassingly direct. The one thing the format truly cannot supply is exactly what you flagged: rails and analog glue.

Here's how the save format maps onto NDL's three constructs:
- pinout blocks — FR-057 embeds a full copy of the component's YAML in every saved instance, and that copy includes each pin's name, direction, and physical DIP pin number (I checked: all 31 of the 74-series YAMLs carry number:; a saved 74174 instance in simple174.json has "name": "D0", "number": 3, ...). So the exporter can emit real-pinout pin 3 = D0 lines without touching the component library.

- package statements — FR-011 gives each physical package exactly one U-number. Subunit gates appear in nets as U1A.1B, but the unit letter is redundant (pin names like 1B are unique within the package), so the exporter just strips it: package 7400 U1 … U1.1B.

circuit connections — the save file carries a nets array whose pins are already spelled "U1.CP", "A-1.OUT" — literally NDL's pin-reference syntax. It's regenerated on every save (design.md A4), and FR-059a guarantees connectivity is derivable from the authoritative wires/vertices even without it. A multi-pin net expands to a chain of pairwise -> statements, and since pin directions are saved, the exporter can even honor NDL's driver-on-the-left convention.

The caveats, in descending order of substance:

1. Power/ground — the real insufficiency. FR-062 bans them from the YAML, the editor, and the save file, and the removed "declared-package" mechanism (FR-062b's supersession note) took away the last place that knowledge lived. The gtoal example is dominated by rail wiring (PI.5v -> Digipot1.Vdd…), and none of that can be generated from a save file. An exporter would need its own side table (DIP14 → pin 14 Vcc / pin 7 GND, etc.) or simply emit rail-less pinouts — legal NDL, since nothing requires a pinout to be complete.
2. A-series built-ins (switches, clock, indicators, pull-ups, ports) have no physical package. This is exporter policy, not missing data — the natural move is to turn the design's ports into a connector pinout, exactly like the example's VecPort, and drop or header-ize the rest.
3. Sub-designs (X-series) store only a relative child path (FR-060b), so a flat NDL export must recursively load and flatten child files — the information exists, just not within one file.
4. Trivia: the two parts without pin numbers (type-R8X8, type-RAM256-8) need invented numbering, which is harmless since NDL numbers are footprint metadata; and your active-low convention /MR would cosmetically translate to NDL's MR', though both are legal NDL names. Instance names (U1, A-4, X1) contain no dots, so NDL's split-at-first-dot parsing works unmodified.

So an exporter is very feasible: read the saved JSON, emit one pinout per distinct type (from the embedded typeData), one package line per type listing the U-numbers, and the nets array as the circuit block. The output would be a correct logical NDL netlist; making it buildable like the joystick example would take only a small static Vcc/GND table on the exporter side.

I said:

I hope to eventually have a KiCad exporter. This would require full pin number information. So I'm wondering if we can enhance the per-component YAML format To include this meta-data. It would not be used except by exporters. This would require updating all the existing YAML files. Thoughts?

This is the right instinct — the exporter-side lookup table I hand-waved for NDL would rot; the component YAML, which already cites its datasheet, is the natural home for this knowledge. It's very doable, and I'd shape it like this:

Keep it out of pins:. FR-062's ban on power/ground pins isn't an accident — every rule downstream of pins: assumes signal pins (required direction, side/position, group coherence, unique names feeding saved endpoints). Adding power pins there means carving exceptions through all of that. Instead, add a separate optional top-level block that the editor and simulator never read:

physical:
  package: DIP-14            # tool-neutral footprint hint
  power:
    - { name: VCC, number: 14, rail: 5v }
    - { name: GND, number: 7 }
  nc: [ 13 ]                 # no-connects, if any

This follows the FR-066 precedent (the behavior: block is opaque to everything except its one consumer), so the parser change is nearly nil and no editor behavior is touched.

The validation is where the value is. Once physical: exists, the server can cross-check what today is uncheckable: signal-pin numbers plus power/NC numbers must be unique and must exactly tile 1..N for the declared package. That completeness check will catch transcription errors in the existing number: fields that nothing currently exercises — the same class of bug the NDL example's unconnected-wiper errata illustrated. I'd make the check conditional on the block being present, so parts without it (fictional ones like type-RAM256-8, dialog-created GALs) stay legal and the exporter just warns.

A pleasant free ride: FR-057 copies the full type YAML into every saved instance, so physical: flows into save files automatically — no save-format change, no formatVersion bump, and exporters (NDL, KiCad) can work from the design JSON alone without consulting the library.

Scope of the update: 33 files. The 31 74-series parts are mostly mechanical — HC-family corner power (Vcc = top corner, GND = pin N/2 is the usual pattern but not universal, so each one should be confirmed against the datasheet already cited in the file header). type-R8X8 needs numbers assigned (real SIP/DIP resistor packs exist to model it on); type-RAM256-8 is fictional and can simply omit the block. The make-yaml-from-datasheet skill should also be updated so new parts arrive with the block filled in.

Two things I'd defer but leave room for: per-instance footprint choice (DIP vs SOIC — the FR-058 override mechanism is the natural carrier when KiCad export actually lands), and tool-specific footprint IDs (Package_DIP:DIP-14_W7.62mm
— I'd keep the YAML tool-neutral and let the KiCad exporter own that mapping, with an optional escape-hatch field only if the mapping proves lossy).

Process-wise this is a clean additive change: a new suffixed FR (FR-062e, say) stating the block is exporter-only metadata ignored by editor and simulation, a design.md §7.6 addition, a CHANGELOG line, then the parser tweak + validation + the 33-file sweep. The datasheet verification pass is the only genuinely careful part.

Want me to draft the FR text and the exact YAML schema first, or is there a piece of this you'd shape differently?


