Hi Claude. I am about to begin requesting major changes to the
requirements, the design, and the code. These change requests are
not the result of bugs. They are a recognition of features I have
observed in other digital simulators but forgot to specify in this
one.

The first major feature change is called "subunit rendering".  Some
7400–series parts are single functional units and should be drawn
as they are currently drawn, with rectangles and pins. A 74138 is
a good example. But other 7400–series parts contain completely
separate subunits that should be rendered separately using
traditional schematic imagery.  A 7400 is an example. The 7400
package contains four NAND gates that should be rendered separately as
traditional NAND gate symbols. If the next U-number is, say, 5,
then the four gates should be labeled 5-A, 5-B, 5-C, and 5-D. All
four subunits should be placed on the display when the component is dropped
from the palette.

This requires significant changes to the YAML format. I suggest:
  rendertype: subunit # or "unit" (the default if rendertype is not given)
  numunits: 4 # or whatever
  renderas: nand # and, or, nor, xor, xnor, not, mux2, mux4, mux8.

If the render type is "unit", the existing rectangular rendering
is used.  When it is "subunit", for e.g. a 7400,  each NAND symbol
would have two input pins.  The image generator code must know how
to generate the schematic symbols for each of the list  of gate
types and logic elements shown in the YAML comment above. The "pins"
array can still be used to establish direction and labeled the pin
bubbles; but for subunit rendering, the "pos:" field is not used,
since the positions of the inputs and outputs are dictated by the
gate symbol which is known to th renderer.

Multiplexers are to be drawn as symmetrical trapezoids with the
angled sides at top and bottom angled about 30° toward the short
side on the right.  The long left side of the trapezoid must allow
enough space for the number of input pins. The multiplexers control
lines should enter on the top. This will be tricky to implement
because the bubbles should be on the grid and should also be on the
sloping top side.

Let's discuss these requirements and then I will put you in plan mode.
